# Chapter 5 Diagnostic Criteria

### (A) Suspected Cases.
Comprehensive analysis of the following epidemiological history and clinical manifestations:

1. Epidemiological History
* (1) Travel history or residence history of Wuhan and surrounding areas, or other communities with case reports within 14 days before the onset of illness;
* (2) History of contact with new coronavirus infected persons (positive nucleic acid test) within 14 days before onset;
* (3) Patients with fever or respiratory symptoms from Wuhan and surrounding areas or from communities with case reports have been contacted within 14 days before the onset of illness;
* (4) Aggressive onset (2 or more cases of fever and / or respiratory symptoms in a small area such as home, office, school class, etc. within 2 weeks).

2. Clinical Manifestations
* (1) fever and / or respiratory symptoms;
* (2) The imaging features of the above-mentioned new coronavirus pneumonia;
* (3) The total number of white blood cells is normal or decreased, and the lymphocyte count is normal or decreased in the early stage of onset.

Have any one of the epidemiological history and meet any two of the clinical manifestations. If there is no clear epidemiological history, it meets 3 of the clinical manifestations.

### (B) Confirmed Cases.
Suspected cases with one of the following etiology or serological evidence:
1. Real-time fluorescent RT-PCR detection of new coronavirus nucleic acid positive;
2. Viral gene sequencing, highly homologous to known new coronaviruses;
3. Serum neocoronavirus-specific IgM antibodies and IgG antibodies were positive; serum neocoronavirus-specific IgG antibodies changed from negative to positive or the recovery period was 4 times or more higher than in the acute phase.

